---
layout: post
title: Warren VEX Robotics SCRIMMAGE (Downey, California; 8-25-15)
---
#Before Our Matches
The Downey Scrimmage was the first time our robots competed in the Nothing but Net Season [(here is the game)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A8daR6qBw3M).  It occurred on August 25, 2015, which is quite early for a competition.  The entire week before, we went to robotics almost every day to struggle to finish our robot.  As a result, we had no time to practice with our robot before the competition and someone who had never operated before was planning to operate the robot.  The night before the competition, we stayed up until 2:30 am working on our robot.  Every subsystem was usable, but nowhere close to what we had had in mind with our design.

After a close to sleepless night, we arrived at competition around 8:00 am.  We ran in and secured a spot on the practice field and immediately began to practice.  The plan was for our robot to be able to decently full court and shoot balls from the infield.  While practicing, we found that neither shot was as accurate as we had planned.  This was because the lack of control systems on our shooter.  Our code simply directly set power values to the shooter.  This can be attributed to the rushed completion of our robot.  I had not had any time to tune any control systems with our current robot.  After a sufficient amount of practice, we went to get our robot inspected.  Other than one axle that we had to cut off, our robot passed inspection.  We were ready for our first match.

#Qualificaitons
During our first match, our partner (4800B) was to full court while we played in the infield.  They ended up not being able to full court and our drive kept burning out so we were immobile during much of the match.  We ended up losing 26-57.  After our first match, we realized that we could not put our drive train in high gear, and so we took apart the drive and geared the motors down before our next match.  It was the quickest pit stop ever.

Our next match was our first attempt at full courting in a match.  We used the same power values that had worked before to shoot the ball, but the ball did not make it most of the time.  Instantly, I realized this was because of the difference in outputs of our batteries. The only solution would be the use of a control system, such as PID or TBH. However, since the competition only had 24 teams, our matches were quite close to one another.  This ruled out tuning a control system at competition.  I did not realize any other solution until later.  We did win our second match from the balls that did make it. The final score was 22-4.

Our third match was against two Brobot (4800) teams.  We feared that we would lose the match, but in the end, the match could not have gone more perfectly.  Our full court shot worked and we alone scored 87 points.  This was the highest score of the day so far.  During this match, I realized that the power we would need to shoot at for full courting would be in a certain range of power values because we ended up using a power value we had not previously tested with during that match.  To allow us to full court, I found the range of power values and simply allowed the operator to add or subtract two power values at a time.  This gave the operator the ability to minimally change the power value to correct the shot.  As a result, the first 2-4 full court shots would be spent calibrating.  Once calibrated, the full court shot would be more accurate than before.  

Our fourth match was extremely frustrating.  We were against our A Team and could shut them out of first place if we won.  No code was changed between matches, and yet our robot did not move the entire match.  I personally still blame the field because when I unplugged the remote, the robot drove fine.  As a result, our A Team won and was on the road to finishing in first.  After this match, we were not in the top 8 because of our unluckiness.  Despite that however, the first, second, and third seeds all wanted to pick us.  I believe this occurred because of a combination of our reputation as a team and because we had nearly doubled the high score in one of our matches.

#Eliminations
At the time, the first seed was 404A.  We had been on an alliance with them and had won at Reseda the prior year.  We thought it would be in our best interest if they had picked us.  They would have to simply keep first place until alliance selection.  In their last match, they did not score any SP points and 3309A was able to secure first place by 4 SP points.  When this occurred, we were greatly concerned, because chances were if 3309A chose 404A, they would most likely be able to beat us and any other team except 4800B, in my opinion at least.  3309A ended up picking us however.  Yes, the first seed picked the 10th place seed. 

404A was in second and picked 404.  At the time, we thought for sure that the finals match would be team 3309 versus team 404.  So eliminations began.  During our quarterfinals matches, we decided to focus on finding the best strategy since we were playing against the 8th alliance.  The first quarterfinal match, we had Team A full court and we played infield.  All went well and we score 127 points, setting the high score of the day.  The second quarterfinals match, we switched roles.  We full courted while Team A played infield.  We scored 116 points.  This was because Team A was better at full courting over infield. Quarterfinals (vs. 687B and 907B) and semifinals (vs. 4800C and 1034C) were not even close matches for our alliance.  We scored consistently above 100 points.  The 404 alliance was having a much harder time.  During quarterfinals and finals, they could not score above 70 points. They still effortlessly won quarterfinals, but this was not the same for semi-finals. For semifinals, they were against 4800B and 1034A.  404 won their first match in semifinals, but 4800B really stepped up their game the next match.  They scored significantly more points, scoring 77 in SF-2 and 81 in SF-3.  Since 404 could not break 70 points, they lost.  I later found out 404A’s robot was having problems that they could not fix in the short time between matches.  

Now we knew our opponents would be 4800B and 1034A in finals.  Our strategy was to simply do what we had been and outscore them.  This was significantly different from our 404 strategy. Our 404 strategy had been to block 404 in auto after shooting our preloads because 404 moved to the center and then shot during their auto.  After that, we would block 404A (their robot was blockable even in the protected full court shooting zone) while Team A would full court.  This would essentially make the match a 404 vs. 3309A match while we blocked 404A.  Once 404A would give up on full courting, we would score some infield stacks and secure the victory.

During the first match of finals, we score 102 points while 4800B and 1034A scored 73 points.  We realized that we could outscore them and simply would have to win one of the next two matches.  During the halfway point of the second match, our robot shut off randomly (the field again) and Team A was forced to take on the other alliance alone.  We could not tell who was winning the match, but we knew it was close.  During the last 3 seconds, Team A scored one last bonus ball (worth 10 points) and won the match. 	The final score was 95 to 90.  We would have lost the match had they not made that shot.  Of course even if we did lose, we would have hopefully outscored them again in the third match assuming our robot didn’t lose connection.

Team A and Team B had finally won a tournament together (we had failed trying last year).  On top of this, Team A won the Design Award from their notebook.  It was a pretty good day for the Friarbots, but we were not happy with our robots performance in qualifications.  We currently have much room to improve before our next competition.

[Here is the competition link if you would like to view the results.](http://www.robotevents.com/robot-competitions/vex-robotics-competition/re-vrc-15-2938.html)